Welcoming Mr. Nghiem Giai Hoa and leaders of Chinese enterprises to seek investment opportunities in Vietnam, the Prime Minister said that the promotion of cooperation and investment activities by Chinese enterprises in Vietnam contributes to deepening the Vietnam-China Comprehensive Strategic Cooperative Partnership, building a Vietnam-China Community of Shared Futures of strategic significance, as well as contributing to the development of both Vietnam and China.

According to the Prime Minister, in recent times, with the joint efforts of both sides, the Vietnam-China relationship of "both comrades and brothers" has been developing increasingly deeply, substantially and comprehensively; especially the top leaders of the two Parties and two countries have agreed to build a Vietnam-China Community of Shared Futures of strategic significance with the connotation of "6 more". Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh affirmed that the Chinese business community plays an extremely important role.

Over the past 10 years, trade between the two countries has increased more than 4 times, making China Vietnam's largest import market. Vietnam is China's largest trading partner in ASEAN. China's investment in Vietnam has increased more than 7 times. China has become the 6th largest investor out of 146 investment partners of Vietnam. In 2023 and 11 months of 2024, investment cooperation has made a breakthrough, China has become the leading partner in the number of new investment projects in Vietnam. The Prime Minister said that Vietnam is a transitional economy, focusing on implementing 3 strategic breakthroughs, including developing strategic infrastructure, especially transport infrastructure; highly appreciated the cooperation in the past as well as the cooperation proposals in the future of Pacific Construction Group in developing important infrastructure projects in Vietnam. Believing that time, intelligence and determination determine success, the Prime Minister suggested that the Group study and participate in projects such as the construction of Tu Lien Bridge, the urban railway line in Hanoi from Van Cao - Ngoc Khanh - Lang - Hoa Lac; urban railway or subway from Tan Son Nhat International Airport to Long Thanh International Airport; cross-border railway and road routes (Lao Cai - Hanoi - Hai Phong; Lang Son - Hanoi; Quang Ninh - Hai Phong); Ngoc Hoi Bridge connecting Hung Yen with Hanoi... in appropriate forms and plans.

Chinese business leaders were delighted with the good relations between Vietnam and China; said that Vietnam has many potentials and advantages for cooperation and investment such as: advantages in developing the marine economy, especially offshore wind energy; a "golden" population structure; increasing economic growth and income; favorable investment environment; Vietnam always creates conditions and supports businesses to develop; with increasingly modern infrastructure... On the basis of the relationship between the two countries, leaders of Chinese enterprises wish to cooperate and invest in Vietnam in the fields of: construction, energy, trade, real estate, electrical equipment, electronics, environment, health, biology, chemicals, new materials, agricultural products...

Agreeing with the proposal of Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh; said that with the experience of China as well as in Vietnam in implementing public-private partnership projects to develop infrastructure, Pacific Construction Group and Chinese enterprises with their potential and experience wish to participate in transport infrastructure projects in Vietnam; committed to ensuring the best quality, the lowest price, the most beautiful architecture and the best progress; turning these infrastructure projects into symbols in the relationship between the two countries, so that Vietnam becomes their second homeland.

Taking note of the enthusiastic opinions and investment cooperation proposals of Mr. Nghiem Gioi Hoa and Chinese business leaders, the Prime Minister requested the Ministry of Planning and Investment, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Information and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, and relevant ministries, branches and localities to immediately consider and handle them according to their authority; promptly synthesize and report to competent authorities on issues beyond their authority.
Informing that Vietnam is researching and developing space, sea space, and underground space; along with infrastructure, the Prime Minister requested Chinese businesses to expand investment cooperation space in areas where Chinese businesses have strengths and Vietnam has needs and priorities such as: innovation, green development, renewable energy, smart cities, manufacturing industry, digital transformation, especially emerging industries such as artificial intelligence, semiconductor chips, cloud computing, Internet of Things; participate in building cross-border cooperation zones, upgrading international border gates, piloting smart border gates...

Emphasizing the motto of "listening and understanding together, sharing vision and action together, doing together, winning together, enjoying together, developing together and sharing joy, happiness and pride", the Prime Minister believes that the Pacific Construction Group and the Trang and Nghiem Chinese family businesses will reap many successes in Vietnam and grow stronger and stronger.